docs/guide/in-depth/advanced-chunks.md, before:

# Advanced Chunks

`advancedChunks` is a powerful feature that allows you to do `manual chunking` to complement the `automatic chunking` done by [code splitting](./code-splitting.md). This is useful when you want to optimize the loading performance of your application by splitting it into smaller, more manageable pieces.

Before reading this guide, you should first understand the [code splitting](./code-splitting.md) feature of Rolldown. This guide will explain how `advancedChunks` works and how to use it effectively.

Before we dive into the details, let's clarify some things first.

- `automatic chunking` and `manual chunking` are not contradictory. Using `manual chunking` does not mean disabling `automatic chunking`.
  A module will be either captured by `automatic chunking` or `manual chunking` depending on your configuration, but not both. If a module is not captured by `manual chunking`, it will still be put into a chunk which is created by `automatic chunking` while respecting the rules we explained in the [code splitting](./code-splitting.md) guide.

## Why use `advancedChunks`?

The `automatic chunking` doesn't take loading performance or cache invalidation into account. It simply groups modules based on their static imports. This can lead to suboptimal chunking, where large chunks are created that may not be performant for loading or cause cache invalidation for every deployment.

## How to use `advancedChunks`?

Let's take a look at the following example:

```jsx
// index.jsx
import * as ReactDom from 'react-dom';
import App from './App.jsx';

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <App />,
);

// App.jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from 'ui-lib';

export default function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}
```

and you get the following output:

```js [output-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
'React library code';

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
'UI library code';

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
'ReactDOM library code';

// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<App />);
```

In this example,

- We used 3 libraries: `react`, `react-dom`, and `ui-lib`.
- `output-hash0.js` is the output file generated by Rolldown.
- `hash0` is the hash of the output file, it changes if the content of the file changes.

### Reduce cache invalidation

Let's talk about cache invalidation first. Cache invalidation here means that when you deploy a new version of your application, the browser will need to download the new version of the file. If the file is large, this can lead to a poor user experience.

For example, if you change the `app.jsx` file:

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

then naturally, you get a `output-hash1.js` file with the same content as `output-hash0.js`, except for the change in the `App` function.

Now, if you deploy this new version of your application, the browser will need to download the entire `output-hash1.js` file, even though only a small part of it has changed. This is because the hash of the file has changed, and the browser will treat it as a new file.

To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split output libraries into separate chunks, because they don't change frequently compared to application code.

```js [rolldown.config.js]
export default {
  // ... other configurations
  advancedChunks: {
    groups: [
      {
        test: /node_modules/,
        name: 'libs',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

By using the above `advancedChunks` option, the output will look like this:

:::code-group

```js [output-hash0.js]
import ... from './libs-hash0.js';
// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!")} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

For example, after you change the `app.jsx` file

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

you will get output like this:

:::code-group

```js [output-hash1.js]
import ... from './libs-hash0.js';
// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!!!")} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

- The `libs-hash0.js` file is not changed, so the browser can use the cached version of the file.
- The `output-hash1.js` file is changed, so the browser will download the new version of the file.

### Improve loading performance

`advancedChunks` can also be used to improve the loading performance of your application by splitting it into a practical number of chunks and taking advantage of browser's parallel loading capabilities.

In the previous example, we put all the libraries into a single chunk, which is not optimal for loading performance. If the libraries are too large, the browser will spend a long time downloading the chunk, which can lead to a poor user experience.

To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split the libraries into separate chunks, so that the browser can download them in parallel.

```js [rolldown.config.js]
export default {
  // ... other configurations
  advancedChunks: {
    groups: [
      {
        test: /node_modules\/react/,
        name: 'react',
      },
      {
        test: /node_modules\/react-dom/,
        name: 'react-dom',
      },
      {
        test: /node_modules\/ui-lib/,
        name: 'ui-lib',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

By using the above `advancedChunks` option, the output will look like this:
:::code-group

```js [output-hash0.js]
import ... from './react-hash0.js';
import ... from './react-dom-hash0.js';
import ... from './ui-lib-hash0.js';

// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!")} />;
}
// index.js
ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [react-hash0.js]
"React library code";
export { ... };
```

```js [react-dom-hash0.js]
"ReactDOM library code";
export { ... };
```

```js [ui-lib-hash0.js]
"UI library code";
export { ... };
```

:::
Now, the libraries are split into separate chunks, and the browser can download them in parallel. This can significantly improve the loading performance of your application, especially if the libraries are large.

## Limitations

### Why there's always a `runtime.js` chunk?

tl;dr: If you used `advancedChunks` option, rolldown will forcefully generate a `runtime.js` chunk to ensure that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks.

The `runtime.js` chunk is a special chunk that **only** contains the runtime code necessary for loading and executing your application. It is generated forcefully by the bundler to ensure that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks.

Since advanced chunks allows you to move modules between chunks, it's easily to create a circular import in the output code. This can lead to a situation where the runtime code is not executed before the other chunks, causing errors in your application.

A example output code with circular import:

```js
// first.js
import { __esm, __export, init_second, value$1 as value } from './second.js';
var first_exports = {};
__export(first_exports, { value: () => value$1 });
var value$1;
var init_first = __esm({
  'first.js'() {
    init_second();
    // ...
  },
});
export { first_exports, init_first, value$1 as value };

// main.js
import { first_exports, init_first } from './first.js';
import { __esm, init_second, second_exports } from './second.js';

var init_main = __esm({
  'main.js'() {
    init_first();
    init_second();
    // ...
  },
});

init_main();

// second.js
import { init_first, value } from './first.js';
var __esm = '...';
var __export = '...';

var second_exports = {};
__export(second_exports, { value: () => value$1 });
var value$1;
var init_second = __esm({
  'second.js'() {
    init_first();
    // ...
  },
});

export { __esm, __export, init_second, second_exports, value$1 };
```

When we run `node ./main.js`, the traversal order of the modules would be `main.js` -> `first.js` -> `second.js`. The module execution order would be `second.js` -> `first.js` -> `main.js`.

`second.js` tries to call `__esm` function before it gets initialized. This will lead to a runtime error which is trying to call `undefined` as a function.

With forcefully generated `runtime.js`, the bundler ensures any chunk that depends on runtime code would first load `runtime.js` before executing itself. This guarantees that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks, preventing circular import issues.

### Why does the group contain modules that don't satisfy the constraints?

When a module is captured by a group, Rolldown will try to capture its dependencies recursively without considering constraints. This is because Rolldown is only allowed to mangle the exports of non-entry chunks by default.

For example, if you have the following code:

```js
// entry.js
import { value } from './a.js';

console.log(value);

export const foo = 'foo';

// a.js
import { value as valueB } from './b.js';
export const value = 'a' + valueB;

// b.js
export const value = 'b';
```

Let's say we want to move the `a.js` module into a separate chunk while keeping the `b.js` module in the same chunk as `entry.js`. We get

:::code-group

```js [entry.js]
import { value } from './a.js';

// b.js
const value = 'b';

// entry.js
const foo = 'foo';
console.log(value);

export { foo, value };
```

```js [a.js]
import { value } from './entry.js';

// a.js
export const value = 'a' + value;
```

:::

You could see, to make `a.js` work, we have to change the export signature of the entry chunk `entry.js` and add an additional export `value`. This totally violates the original intention of the code, which is to only export `foo` from `entry.js`.

If you don't want this behavior, you could use [`advancedChunks.includeDependenciesRecursively: false`](/reference/config-options#advancedchunks-includedependenciesrecursively) to disable it.

:::warning Caveats

With `includeDependenciesRecursively: false`, depended modules of a group might be left in the entry chunks. It's invalid to export non-entry module from an entry chunk. To avoid this, we strongly recommend to set:

- [`InputOptions.preserveEntrySignatures: false | 'allow-extension'`](/reference/config-options#preserveentrysignatures)

`includeDependenciesRecursively: false` increases the chance of generating invalid output code. If you encounter issues due to execution order or circular dependencies, consider enabling:

- [`experimental.strictExecutionOrder: true`](/reference/config-options#experimental-strictexecutionorder)

:::

### Why is the chunk bigger than `maxSize`?

If the input has a module that is bigger than `maxSize`, the generated chunk will contain that module and thus the chunk will be bigger than `maxSize`.

This can be improved by splitting a single module into multiple chunks. But this is not supported yet.

Commit message:

feat: add validation for `preserveEntrySignatures` with `includeDependenciesRecursively` option (#6468)
Closes #6449

Two varificationd:

When `includeDependenciesRecursively` is set to false:

- if `preserveEntrySignatures` is unset, we will set it `allow-extension` with warning.
- if `preserveEntrySignatures` is set to `strcit` etc, we will throw an error to interrupt the build.

docs/guide/in-depth/advanced-chunks.md, after:

# Advanced Chunks

`advancedChunks` is a powerful feature that allows you to do `manual chunking` to complement the `automatic chunking` done by [code splitting](./code-splitting.md). This is useful when you want to optimize the loading performance of your application by splitting it into smaller, more manageable pieces.

Before reading this guide, you should first understand the [code splitting](./code-splitting.md) feature of Rolldown. This guide will explain how `advancedChunks` works and how to use it effectively.

Before we dive into the details, let's clarify some things first.

- `automatic chunking` and `manual chunking` are not contradictory. Using `manual chunking` does not mean disabling `automatic chunking`.
  A module will be either captured by `automatic chunking` or `manual chunking` depending on your configuration, but not both. If a module is not captured by `manual chunking`, it will still be put into a chunk which is created by `automatic chunking` while respecting the rules we explained in the [code splitting](./code-splitting.md) guide.

## Why use `advancedChunks`?

The `automatic chunking` doesn't take loading performance or cache invalidation into account. It simply groups modules based on their static imports. This can lead to suboptimal chunking, where large chunks are created that may not be performant for loading or cause cache invalidation for every deployment.

## How to use `advancedChunks`?

Let's take a look at the following example:

```jsx
// index.jsx
import * as ReactDom from 'react-dom';
import App from './App.jsx';

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <App />,
);

// App.jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from 'ui-lib';

export default function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}
```

and you get the following output:

```js [output-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
'React library code';

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
'UI library code';

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
'ReactDOM library code';

// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<App />);
```

In this example,

- We used 3 libraries: `react`, `react-dom`, and `ui-lib`.
- `output-hash0.js` is the output file generated by Rolldown.
- `hash0` is the hash of the output file, it changes if the content of the file changes.

### Reduce cache invalidation

Let's talk about cache invalidation first. Cache invalidation here means that when you deploy a new version of your application, the browser will need to download the new version of the file. If the file is large, this can lead to a poor user experience.

For example, if you change the `app.jsx` file:

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

then naturally, you get a `output-hash1.js` file with the same content as `output-hash0.js`, except for the change in the `App` function.

Now, if you deploy this new version of your application, the browser will need to download the entire `output-hash1.js` file, even though only a small part of it has changed. This is because the hash of the file has changed, and the browser will treat it as a new file.

To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split output libraries into separate chunks, because they don't change frequently compared to application code.

```js [rolldown.config.js]
export default {
  // ... other configurations
  advancedChunks: {
    groups: [
      {
        test: /node_modules/,
        name: 'libs',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

By using the above `advancedChunks` option, the output will look like this:

:::code-group

```js [output-hash0.js]
import ... from './libs-hash0.js';
// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!")} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

For example, after you change the `app.jsx` file

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

you will get output like this:

:::code-group

```js [output-hash1.js]
import ... from './libs-hash0.js';
// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!!!")} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

- The `libs-hash0.js` file is not changed, so the browser can use the cached version of the file.
- The `output-hash1.js` file is changed, so the browser will download the new version of the file.

### Improve loading performance

`advancedChunks` can also be used to improve the loading performance of your application by splitting it into a practical number of chunks and taking advantage of browser's parallel loading capabilities.

In the previous example, we put all the libraries into a single chunk, which is not optimal for loading performance. If the libraries are too large, the browser will spend a long time downloading the chunk, which can lead to a poor user experience.

To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split the libraries into separate chunks, so that the browser can download them in parallel.

```js [rolldown.config.js]
export default {
  // ... other configurations
  advancedChunks: {
    groups: [
      {
        test: /node_modules\/react/,
        name: 'react',
      },
      {
        test: /node_modules\/react-dom/,
        name: 'react-dom',
      },
      {
        test: /node_modules\/ui-lib/,
        name: 'ui-lib',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

By using the above `advancedChunks` option, the output will look like this:
:::code-group

```js [output-hash0.js]
import ... from './react-hash0.js';
import ... from './react-dom-hash0.js';
import ... from './ui-lib-hash0.js';

// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!")} />;
}
// index.js
ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [react-hash0.js]
"React library code";
export { ... };
```

```js [react-dom-hash0.js]
"ReactDOM library code";
export { ... };
```

```js [ui-lib-hash0.js]
"UI library code";
export { ... };
```

:::
Now, the libraries are split into separate chunks, and the browser can download them in parallel. This can significantly improve the loading performance of your application, especially if the libraries are large.

## Limitations

### Why there's always a `runtime.js` chunk?

tl;dr: If you used `advancedChunks` option, rolldown will forcefully generate a `runtime.js` chunk to ensure that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks.

The `runtime.js` chunk is a special chunk that **only** contains the runtime code necessary for loading and executing your application. It is generated forcefully by the bundler to ensure that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks.

Since advanced chunks allows you to move modules between chunks, it's easily to create a circular import in the output code. This can lead to a situation where the runtime code is not executed before the other chunks, causing errors in your application.

A example output code with circular import:

```js
// first.js
import { __esm, __export, init_second, value$1 as value } from './second.js';
var first_exports = {};
__export(first_exports, { value: () => value$1 });
var value$1;
var init_first = __esm({
  'first.js'() {
    init_second();
    // ...
  },
});
export { first_exports, init_first, value$1 as value };

// main.js
import { first_exports, init_first } from './first.js';
import { __esm, init_second, second_exports } from './second.js';

var init_main = __esm({
  'main.js'() {
    init_first();
    init_second();
    // ...
  },
});

init_main();

// second.js
import { init_first, value } from './first.js';
var __esm = '...';
var __export = '...';

var second_exports = {};
__export(second_exports, { value: () => value$1 });
var value$1;
var init_second = __esm({
  'second.js'() {
    init_first();
    // ...
  },
});

export { __esm, __export, init_second, second_exports, value$1 };
```

When we run `node ./main.js`, the traversal order of the modules would be `main.js` -> `first.js` -> `second.js`. The module execution order would be `second.js` -> `first.js` -> `main.js`.

`second.js` tries to call `__esm` function before it gets initialized. This will lead to a runtime error which is trying to call `undefined` as a function.

With forcefully generated `runtime.js`, the bundler ensures any chunk that depends on runtime code would first load `runtime.js` before executing itself. This guarantees that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks, preventing circular import issues.

### Why does the group contain modules that don't satisfy the constraints?

When a module is captured by a group, Rolldown will try to capture its dependencies recursively without considering constraints. This is because Rolldown is only allowed to mangle the exports of non-entry chunks by default.

For example, if you have the following code:

```js
// entry.js
import { value } from './a.js';

console.log(value);

export const foo = 'foo';

// a.js
import { value as valueB } from './b.js';
export const value = 'a' + valueB;

// b.js
export const value = 'b';
```

Let's say we want to move the `a.js` module into a separate chunk while keeping the `b.js` module in the same chunk as `entry.js`. We get

:::code-group

```js [entry.js]
import { value } from './a.js';

// b.js
const value = 'b';

// entry.js
const foo = 'foo';
console.log(value);

export { foo, value };
```

```js [a.js]
import { value } from './entry.js';

// a.js
export const value = 'a' + value;
```

:::

You could see, to make `a.js` work, we have to change the export signature of the entry chunk `entry.js` and add an additional export `value`. This totally violates the original intention of the code, which is to only export `foo` from `entry.js`.

If you don't want this behavior, you could use [`advancedChunks.includeDependenciesRecursively: false`](/reference/config-options#advancedchunks-includedependenciesrecursively) to disable it.

:::warning Caveats

With `includeDependenciesRecursively: false`, depended modules of a group might be left in the entry chunks. It's invalid to export non-entry module from an entry chunk. To avoid this, Rolldown will implicitly set `preserveEntrySignatures: 'allow-extension'` if you didn't set it explicitly.

- [`InputOptions.preserveEntrySignatures: false | 'allow-extension'`](/reference/config-options#preserveentrysignatures)

`includeDependenciesRecursively: false` increases the chance of generating invalid output code. If you encounter issues due to execution order or circular dependencies, consider enabling:

- [`experimental.strictExecutionOrder: true`](/reference/config-options#experimental-strictexecutionorder)

:::

### Why is the chunk bigger than `maxSize`?

If the input has a module that is bigger than `maxSize`, the generated chunk will contain that module and thus the chunk will be bigger than `maxSize`.

This can be improved by splitting a single module into multiple chunks. But this is not supported yet.
