docs/contrib-guide/testing.md, before:

# Testing

:::tip TLDR
run `just test-update` to run all tests and update snapshots automatically
:::

We have two groups of test suites: one for Rust, and one for Node.js.

:::warning Test principle you should respect

1. When adding new feature with options, always make sure adding related tests in javascript side if possible.

Some test related skills maybe helpful [details](#test-skills)  
:::

## Summary

- `just test` for running all tests.
- `just test-update` running all tests and update snapshots automatically
- `just test-rust` for running all Rust tests.
- `just test-node` for running all Node.js tests.
- `just test-node rolldown` for running only Rolldown's Node.js tests.
- `just test-node rollup` for running only Rollup's tests.
- `just update-esbuild-diff` or `just ued` for update diff in esbuild test suite

## Rust Tests

Rust tests cases are stored in

- `/crates/rolldown/tests/esbuild`
- `/crates/rolldown/tests/fixtures`

### How test cases are defined

A test case is a folder that contains `_config.json`.

`_config.json` contains the configuration for the test suite. If everything works right, you should be able to have auto-completion while editing `_config.json` due to the [config](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/.vscode/settings.json#L36-L40).

For all available options, you could refer to

- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_testing_config/src/lib.rs
- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_common/src/inner_bundler_options/mod.rs
- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_testing/_config.schema.json

- `main.js` is the default entry of the test case, if `config.input` is not specified in `_config.json`.
- Rolldown will bundle the input into `/dist`, and execute every entry file in `/dist` orderly. You might thinking it as running `node --import ./dist/entry1.mjs --import ./dist/entry2.mjs --import ./dist/entry3.mjs --eval ""`.
  - If there is a `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs` in the test case folder, only `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs` will be executed. If you want to execute compiled entries, you need to import them manually in `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs`.

### Function-complete tests in rust

`_config.json` has it's limitations, so we also support writing tests with rust directly. You could refer to

- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/commit/7d32cc70e194c52fa932cefbd4f926a9c3e3315f

#### Snapshot testing

Rolldown uses [insta](https://insta.rs/docs/cli/) for rust snapshot testing. You could use

- `cargo insta review` to review the new snapshot one by one.
- `cargo insta accept` to accept all new snapshots at once.

## Node.js Tests

:::tip
Make sure to [build Node.js bindings](./building-and-running.md) before running these tests.
:::

### Node.js API tests

Tests located in `packages/rolldown/tests` are used to test Rolldown's Node.js API (i.e. the API of the `rolldown` package published on NPM).

It is our goal to align Rolldown's Node.js API with that of Rollup's as much as possible, and the tests are used to verify API alignment and track the progress. Currently, there are many Rollup options that are not yet supported. If you implemented support for additional options from rollup, please add corresponding test cases for them.

- `just test-node rolldown` will run rolldown tests.
- `just test-node rolldown --update` will run tests and update snapshots.

#### Run tests of the specific file

To run tests of the specific file, you could use

```shell
just test-node rolldown test-file-name
```

For example, to run tests in `fixture.test.ts`, you could use `just test-node rolldown fixture`.

#### Run the specific test

To run specific test, you could use

```shell
just test-node rolldown -t test-name
```

Names of tests in `fixture.test.ts` are defined with their folder names. `tests/fixtures/resolve/alias` will has test name `resolve/alias`.

To run the `tests/fixtures/resolve/alias` test, you could use `just test-node rolldown -t resolve/alias`.

:::info

- `just test-node rolldown -t aaa bbb` is different from `just test-node rolldown -t "aaa bbb"`. The former will run tests that either contains `aaa` or `bbb`, while the latter will run tests, whose name contain `aaa bbb`.

- For more advanced usage, please refer to https://vitest.dev/guide/filtering.

:::

### Rollup behavior alignment tests

We also aim for behavior alignment with Rollup by running Rollup's own tests against Rolldown.

To achieve this, each test case in `packages/rollup-tests/test` proxies to the corresponding test in the `rollup` git submodule in project root.

The git submodule should have been initialized after running `just init` when setting up the project, but you should also run `just update` to update the submodule before running the Rollup tests.

In `/packages/rollup-tests`:

- `just test-node rollup` will run rollup tests.
- `just test-node rollup --update` will run and update the tests' status.

### Test skills

Our rust test infra is powerful enough to cover most of the case of javascript(plugin, passing function inside config).
But since Javascript side user is still our first class user, try to put tests in javascript side if possible.
Here are some experience about what test technique you should use.
:::tip TLDR
Add test in javascript side if you don't want to wasting time on deciding which way to use.
:::

#### Prefer Rust

1. Test warning or error emitted by rolldown core.
   - [error](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/errors/assign_to_import/artifacts.snap?plain=1#L2-L54)
   - [warning](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/warnings/eval/artifacts.snap?plain=1#L1-L28)
2. Matrix testing, assume you want to test a suite different [format](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/topics/bundler_esm_cjs_tests/4/_config.json?plain=1#L1-L21), with `configVariants` you could do that with only one test.
3. Tests related to linking algorithm(tree shaking, chunk splitting) Those may require a lot of debugging, add test on rust side could reduce the time of coding-debug-coding work loop.

#### Prefer Javascript

Any category not mentioned above should put in javascript side.

Commit message:

docs: rename to how to choose test technique

docs/contrib-guide/testing.md, after:

# Testing

:::tip TLDR
run `just test-update` to run all tests and update snapshots automatically
:::

We have two groups of test suites: one for Rust, and one for Node.js.

:::warning Test principle you should respect

1. When adding new feature with options, always make sure adding related tests in javascript side if possible.

Here is some details about how to choose test technique [details](#how-to-choose-test-technique)  
:::

## Summary

- `just test` for running all tests.
- `just test-update` running all tests and update snapshots automatically
- `just test-rust` for running all Rust tests.
- `just test-node` for running all Node.js tests.
- `just test-node rolldown` for running only Rolldown's Node.js tests.
- `just test-node rollup` for running only Rollup's tests.
- `just update-esbuild-diff` or `just ued` for update diff in esbuild test suite

## Rust Tests

Rust tests cases are stored in

- `/crates/rolldown/tests/esbuild`
- `/crates/rolldown/tests/fixtures`

### How test cases are defined

A test case is a folder that contains `_config.json`.

`_config.json` contains the configuration for the test suite. If everything works right, you should be able to have auto-completion while editing `_config.json` due to the [config](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/.vscode/settings.json#L36-L40).

For all available options, you could refer to

- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_testing_config/src/lib.rs
- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_common/src/inner_bundler_options/mod.rs
- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/main/crates/rolldown_testing/_config.schema.json

- `main.js` is the default entry of the test case, if `config.input` is not specified in `_config.json`.
- Rolldown will bundle the input into `/dist`, and execute every entry file in `/dist` orderly. You might thinking it as running `node --import ./dist/entry1.mjs --import ./dist/entry2.mjs --import ./dist/entry3.mjs --eval ""`.
  - If there is a `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs` in the test case folder, only `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs` will be executed. If you want to execute compiled entries, you need to import them manually in `_test.mjs`/`_test.cjs`.

### Function-complete tests in rust

`_config.json` has it's limitations, so we also support writing tests with rust directly. You could refer to

- https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/commit/7d32cc70e194c52fa932cefbd4f926a9c3e3315f

#### Snapshot testing

Rolldown uses [insta](https://insta.rs/docs/cli/) for rust snapshot testing. You could use

- `cargo insta review` to review the new snapshot one by one.
- `cargo insta accept` to accept all new snapshots at once.

## Node.js Tests

:::tip
Make sure to [build Node.js bindings](./building-and-running.md) before running these tests.
:::

### Node.js API tests

Tests located in `packages/rolldown/tests` are used to test Rolldown's Node.js API (i.e. the API of the `rolldown` package published on NPM).

It is our goal to align Rolldown's Node.js API with that of Rollup's as much as possible, and the tests are used to verify API alignment and track the progress. Currently, there are many Rollup options that are not yet supported. If you implemented support for additional options from rollup, please add corresponding test cases for them.

- `just test-node rolldown` will run rolldown tests.
- `just test-node rolldown --update` will run tests and update snapshots.

#### Run tests of the specific file

To run tests of the specific file, you could use

```shell
just test-node rolldown test-file-name
```

For example, to run tests in `fixture.test.ts`, you could use `just test-node rolldown fixture`.

#### Run the specific test

To run specific test, you could use

```shell
just test-node rolldown -t test-name
```

Names of tests in `fixture.test.ts` are defined with their folder names. `tests/fixtures/resolve/alias` will has test name `resolve/alias`.

To run the `tests/fixtures/resolve/alias` test, you could use `just test-node rolldown -t resolve/alias`.

:::info

- `just test-node rolldown -t aaa bbb` is different from `just test-node rolldown -t "aaa bbb"`. The former will run tests that either contains `aaa` or `bbb`, while the latter will run tests, whose name contain `aaa bbb`.

- For more advanced usage, please refer to https://vitest.dev/guide/filtering.

:::

### Rollup behavior alignment tests

We also aim for behavior alignment with Rollup by running Rollup's own tests against Rolldown.

To achieve this, each test case in `packages/rollup-tests/test` proxies to the corresponding test in the `rollup` git submodule in project root.

The git submodule should have been initialized after running `just init` when setting up the project, but you should also run `just update` to update the submodule before running the Rollup tests.

In `/packages/rollup-tests`:

- `just test-node rollup` will run rollup tests.
- `just test-node rollup --update` will run and update the tests' status.

### How to choose test technique

Our rust test infra is powerful enough to cover most of the case of javascript(plugin, passing function inside config).
But since Javascript side user is still our first class user, try to put tests in javascript side if possible.
Here are some experience about what test technique you should use.
:::tip TLDR
Add test in javascript side if you don't want to wasting time on deciding which way to use.
:::

#### Prefer Rust

1. Test warning or error emitted by rolldown core.
   - [error](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/errors/assign_to_import/artifacts.snap?plain=1#L2-L54)
   - [warning](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/warnings/eval/artifacts.snap?plain=1#L1-L28)
2. Matrix testing, assume you want to test a suite different [format](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/568197a06444809bf44642d88509313ee2735594/crates/rolldown/tests/rolldown/topics/bundler_esm_cjs_tests/4/_config.json?plain=1#L1-L21), with `configVariants` you could do that with only one test.
3. Tests related to linking algorithm(tree shaking, chunk splitting) Those may require a lot of debugging, add test on rust side could reduce the time of coding-debug-coding work loop.

#### Prefer Javascript

Any category not mentioned above should put in javascript side.
