docs/guide/plugin-development.md, before:

# Plugin Development

Rolldown's plugin interface is almost fully compatible with Rollup's (detailed tacking [here](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/issues/819)), so if you have written a Rollup plugin before, you already know how to write a Rolldown plugin!

We are still working on creating a more detailed guide for users who are new to both Rollup and Rolldown. For now, please first refer to [Rollup's plugin development guide](https://rollupjs.org/plugin-development/).

## Plugin hook filters

One important thing to note for JavaScript plugins in Rolldown is that every plugin hook call incurs a small communication overhead between Rust and the JavaScript runtime (i.e. Node.js).

Consider the following plugin:

```js{5}
export default function myPlugin() {
  return {
    name: 'example',
    transform(code, id) {
      if (!id.endsWith('.data')) {
        // early return
        return
      }
      // perform actual transform
      return transformedCode
    },
  }
}
```

Line 5 is a very common pattern in Rollup plugins: check the file extension of a module inside the plugin hook to determine whether it needs to be processed.

However, this would be sub-optimal in a Rust bundler like Rolldown. Imagine this plugin is used in a large app with thousands of modules - Rolldown would have to invoke a Rust-to-JS call for every module, and in many cases just for the plugin to find out it doesn't actually need to do anything. Due to the single-threaded nature of JavaScript, unnecessary Rust-to-JS calls can also de-optimize parallelization.

Ideally, we want to be able to determine whether a plugin hook needs to be invoked at all without leaving Rust. This is why Rolldown augments Rollup plugin's object hook format with the additional `filter` property. The above plugin can be updated to:

```js{5}
export default function myPlugin() {
  return {
    name: 'example',
    transform: {
      filter: {
        id: /\.data$/
      },
      handler (code) {
        // perform actual transform
        return transformedCode
      },
    }
  }
}
```

Rolldown can now compile and execute the regular expression on the Rust side, and can avoid invoking JS if the filter does not match.

In addition to `id`, you can also filter based on `moduleType` and the module's source code. The `filter` property works similarly to [`createFilter` from `@rollup/pluginutils`](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/blob/master/packages/pluginutils/README.md#createfilter). Here are some important details:

- If multiple values are passed to `include`, the filter matches if **any** of them match.
- If a filter has both `include` and `exclude`, `exclude` takes precedence.
- If multiple filter properties are specified, the filter matches when all of the specified properties match. In other words, if even one property fails to match, it is excluded, regardless of the other properties. For example, the following filter matches a module only if its file names ends with `.js`, its source code contains `foo`, and does not contain `bar`:
  ```js
  {
    id: {
      include: /\.js$/,
      exclude: /\.ts$/
    },
    code: {
      include: 'foo',
      exclude: 'bar'
    }
  }
  ```

Full `HookFilter` interface for the `filter` property:

````ts
interface HookFilter {
  /**
   * This filter is used to do a pre-test to determine whether the hook should be called.
   *
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that contain `node_modules` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: '**'+'/node_modules/**' }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that contain `node_modules` or `src` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: ['**'+'/node_modules/**', '**'+'/src/**'] }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that start with `http`
   * ```js
   * { id: /^http/ }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Exclude all `id`s that contain `node_modules` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: { exclude: '**'+'/node_modules/**' } }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Formal pattern to define includes and excludes.
   * ```
   * { id : {
   *   include: ['**'+'/foo/**', /bar/],
   *   exclude: ['**'+'/baz/**', /qux/]
   * }}
   * ```
   */
  id?: StringFilter;
  moduleType?: ModuleTypeFilter;
  code?: StringFilter;
}
````

The following properties are supported by each hook:

- `resolveId` hook: `id`
- `load` hook: `id`
- `transform` hook: `id`, `moduleType`, `code`

> [!NOTE]
> `id` is treated as a glob pattern when you pass a `string`, and treated as a regular expression when you pass a `RegExp`.
> In the `resolve` hook, `id` must be a `RegExp`. `string`s are not allowed.
> This is because the `id` value in `resolveId` is the exact text written in the import statement and usually not an absolute path, while glob patterns are designed to match absolute paths.

Commit message:

docs: clarify rolldown-rollup behavior difference around output generation (#5439)
close #3609 (as a won't fix for now)

---------

Co-authored-by: graphite-app[bot] <96075541+graphite-app[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guide/plugin-development.md, after:

# Plugin Development

Rolldown's plugin interface is almost fully compatible with Rollup's (detailed tacking [here](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/issues/819)), so if you have written a Rollup plugin before, you already know how to write a Rolldown plugin!

We are still working on creating a more detailed guide for users who are new to both Rollup and Rolldown. For now, please first refer to [Rollup's plugin development guide](https://rollupjs.org/plugin-development/).

## Notable Differences from Rollup

While Rolldown's plugin interface is largely compatible with Rollup's, there are some important behavioral differences to be aware of:

### Output Generation Handling

In Rollup, all outputs are generated together in a single process. However, Rolldown handles each output generation separately. This means that if you have multiple output configurations, Rolldown will process each output independently, which can affect how certain plugins behave, especially those that maintain state across the entire build process.

Related to that, the `outputOptions` hook is called **before** the build hooks in Rolldown, whereas Rollup calls them **after** the build hooks.

## Plugin hook filters

One important thing to note for JavaScript plugins in Rolldown is that every plugin hook call incurs a small communication overhead between Rust and the JavaScript runtime (i.e. Node.js).

Consider the following plugin:

```js{5}
export default function myPlugin() {
  return {
    name: 'example',
    transform(code, id) {
      if (!id.endsWith('.data')) {
        // early return
        return
      }
      // perform actual transform
      return transformedCode
    },
  }
}
```

Line 5 is a very common pattern in Rollup plugins: check the file extension of a module inside the plugin hook to determine whether it needs to be processed.

However, this would be sub-optimal in a Rust bundler like Rolldown. Imagine this plugin is used in a large app with thousands of modules - Rolldown would have to invoke a Rust-to-JS call for every module, and in many cases just for the plugin to find out it doesn't actually need to do anything. Due to the single-threaded nature of JavaScript, unnecessary Rust-to-JS calls can also de-optimize parallelization.

Ideally, we want to be able to determine whether a plugin hook needs to be invoked at all without leaving Rust. This is why Rolldown augments Rollup plugin's object hook format with the additional `filter` property. The above plugin can be updated to:

```js{5}
export default function myPlugin() {
  return {
    name: 'example',
    transform: {
      filter: {
        id: /\.data$/
      },
      handler (code) {
        // perform actual transform
        return transformedCode
      },
    }
  }
}
```

Rolldown can now compile and execute the regular expression on the Rust side, and can avoid invoking JS if the filter does not match.

In addition to `id`, you can also filter based on `moduleType` and the module's source code. The `filter` property works similarly to [`createFilter` from `@rollup/pluginutils`](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/blob/master/packages/pluginutils/README.md#createfilter). Here are some important details:

- If multiple values are passed to `include`, the filter matches if **any** of them match.
- If a filter has both `include` and `exclude`, `exclude` takes precedence.
- If multiple filter properties are specified, the filter matches when all of the specified properties match. In other words, if even one property fails to match, it is excluded, regardless of the other properties. For example, the following filter matches a module only if its file names ends with `.js`, its source code contains `foo`, and does not contain `bar`:
  ```js
  {
    id: {
      include: /\.js$/,
      exclude: /\.ts$/
    },
    code: {
      include: 'foo',
      exclude: 'bar'
    }
  }
  ```

Full `HookFilter` interface for the `filter` property:

````ts
interface HookFilter {
  /**
   * This filter is used to do a pre-test to determine whether the hook should be called.
   *
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that contain `node_modules` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: '**'+'/node_modules/**' }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that contain `node_modules` or `src` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: ['**'+'/node_modules/**', '**'+'/src/**'] }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Include all `id`s that start with `http`
   * ```js
   * { id: /^http/ }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Exclude all `id`s that contain `node_modules` in the path.
   * ```js
   * { id: { exclude: '**'+'/node_modules/**' } }
   * ```
   * @example
   * Formal pattern to define includes and excludes.
   * ```
   * { id : {
   *   include: ['**'+'/foo/**', /bar/],
   *   exclude: ['**'+'/baz/**', /qux/]
   * }}
   * ```
   */
  id?: StringFilter;
  moduleType?: ModuleTypeFilter;
  code?: StringFilter;
}
````

The following properties are supported by each hook:

- `resolveId` hook: `id`
- `load` hook: `id`
- `transform` hook: `id`, `moduleType`, `code`

> [!NOTE]
> `id` is treated as a glob pattern when you pass a `string`, and treated as a regular expression when you pass a `RegExp`.
> In the `resolve` hook, `id` must be a `RegExp`. `string`s are not allowed.
> This is because the `id` value in `resolveId` is the exact text written in the import statement and usually not an absolute path, while glob patterns are designed to match absolute paths.
